# Introduction
Introduction
Quantitative Genetics Resources
A general problem in biology is creating causal links between changes in the DNA sequence (genotype) and measurable characteristics of an organism (phenotype). Spanning the genotype to phenotype gap has implications for understanding human and animal diseases as well as understanding drivers of plant growth and yield in agriculture. Genetic mapping populations have been created as tools to aid in linking genotype to phenotype through statistical techniques. With recent advances in DNA sequencing technologies more genotypic information can be collected on individuals in mapping populations to aid in the search of causal genes for complex phenotypic traits important for agriculture such as plant flowering time. One such population is the Bra-Irri population that was created from a cross between a rapid cycling line and a common oilseed variety of Brassica rapa (@iniguez-luy_development_2009).
The previous genetic resources available for this population includes 224 SSR markers spread across 10 linkage groups (chromosomes). While this has been an extremely great resource for mapping a diverse set of phenotypic traits (@lou_genetic_2011, @dechaine_qtl_2014, @brock_floral_2010), the existing markers were not anchored to a known location in the genome. The Brassica rapa genome was released in 2012...
Original marker sets
explain more about SSR and limitations
Make case for advantages of creating high density marker set 

The Brassicaceae is a family of plants that collectively provides 10% of human food calories. Along with the model plant species Arabidopsis, there are X number of Brassicaceae genome sequences that have been published in the last 15 years. Included in this list is Brassica rapa, a physiologically and morphologically diverse diploid species that has 87% gene exon similarity to Arabidopsis thaliana. This makes Brassica rapa a making a great candidate for comparing and translating knowledge of biological processes into a crop species from Arabidopsis. 

Brassica rapa has a genome size of X Gb spread over 10 chromosomes A01-A10. The genome consortium has a public release at version 1.5 that is a significant improvement over version 1.0. However, there are still many large scaffolds that have not been placed due to various problems with assembly. These scaffolds equate to X % of the remaining sequence in the genome. An increasingly common way to place scaffolds and contigs is to use recombination probabilities between molecular markers that occur on those scaffolds so they can be placed in relative positions if general genome assembly fails. The most time consuming part of this step is making a genetic mapping population and completing the sequencing on the progeny. We chose a heavily used recombinant inbred line population developed by @iniguez-luy_development_2009.

Instead of conducting genotype by sequencing for these lines, we instead chose to sequence RNA at enough coverage from all the individuals in the population that we could call SNPs from this data. This technique has been used before in humans, but is uncommon in plants. The advantage is that the sequencing can be used for both genotyping of individuals in the population and for mapping expression QTL thus getting more out of the sequencing and trying to find SNPs in coding regions of genes that are more likely to be causative SNPs.

Through our investigation of this data, we have discovered potential errors in the parental population through SNP discovery, genotyped all the individuals in the BraIRRI population for 1475 markers, and created a saturated genetic map that can improve mapping resolution compared to the existing map. These resources and findings are useful for anyone using this well studied population, the general Brassica rapa community, and anyone interested in comparative genomics within the Brassicaceae. 